And I think it, it's, uh, five minutes, so in your hands.
Sure. All right. Well, thank you, um, Mr. Chair and members of the committee.
My name is Captain Retired Victor Quarty.
I'm an eighth-generation serviceman from my family,
16-year service in New Zealand Army.
I'm coming here to speak in support of the bill, uh, largely.
Um, but as you'll have read from my submission, I'm suggesting that be slightly
broadened and widened, um, given some examples,
um, things that I've seen, um, and heard of through my time
in the Defence Force.
Um,
the, the key ingredients are, are articulated in the submission, but the
primary ingredient that I'm suggesting is intent around those
who wear,
um, uniform, cap badges, corps belts,
uh, which are distinctive military emblems in their own right, uh, with a view
towards impersonation of a service person in the New Zealand Defence Force.
And the key ingredient there is intent.
So we're not talking about somebody wearing granddad's uniform or whatever.
We're talking about somebody that goes out of their way to wear a headdress with a
distinctive corps badge,
uh, and a belt,
service belt, representing a particular regiment or corps,
and in service uniform with a view towards impersonating a service
person.
Uh, that is not currently an offense, as I understand it, under New Zealand law.
Um, and as we move into more difficult times in our international environment,
there are obviously some significant potential security implications,
uh, with folks who choose to do that.
Uh, and with that, Mr. Chair, I'm happy to take questions.
Well, thank you very much. And firstly, thanks for your service and generations of
service.
Mm.
Uh, we do appreciate that. And, and the bill is, is going through to try
and find the right balance here. Um, these, uh, issues
have been raised by other submitters.
Mm.
Um, does anyone have a question o- on that?
Lawrence.
Um, just, uh, I guess a couple of questions.
Again, want to echo the chair's sentiment that thank you for you and your family's
service. Um, I guess the first question is, what do you think in terms
of the increase in terms of penalty?
Because it's quite a substantial increase as well.
Um, do you have any thoughts around that?
My, my view on such matters, sir, is to ask for a giraffe and negotiate down.
If you want a pet kitten at Christmas, you ask for a giraffe and negotiate down,
and you get a puppy at Christmas.
Mm-hmm. Okay. Fair point.
Um, basically go, go big, and then if you get something smaller, then, then
so be it. Um, I've deliberately pitched it that high with
a view towards it being scaled back.
Okay. And just in terms of the, what you said in terms of
intent and just thinking of a couple of potential
scenarios.
Mm-hmm.
So, for example, you mentioned if it's someone wearing a granddad's uniform and et
cetera, but that also would mean y- what you are saying, the intent is
specifically impersonation, right?
Because, you know, if you're wearing something and to go to, let's say, a party or,
like, a period party or et cetera, um, that's
not something that you would consider being captured by what you're recommending.
No, sir. The, the, the key ingredient there is intent, and as I've suggested in
my submission, the onus would be on the prosecution or the Crown-
Yeah
... to prove that in the case of a prosecution, and that's quite a high bar.
For example, with fraud, um, proving fraud, the key ingredient again with
that particular offense is intent, and proving that is a very high bar.
So again, I've deliberately framed it that way-
Yeah
... to avoid situations as described.
Cool. Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Thank you very much. Clear submission and point that you make and points
that you make. So, uh, thank you very much for your time, especially for coming in
and-
Yeah
... presenting and-
In person
... um, and fighting your way through the, although you'll be well equipped to do
that, uh, through, through the throng out there. Appreciate that. Thank you.
Thank you.
All right. Thank you.
Yeah.